
ABOUT SPECIFICATION PATTERN
---------------------------
The Specification pattern (originally defined by Eric Evans and Martin Fowler) is a good way to encapsulate query criteria and to do composition operations. 
Definition of the pattern: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Specification_pattern
M.F and E.E. paper: http://www.martinfowler.com/apsupp/spec.pdf
Although the original pattern worked just with in-memory-objects, we changed the implementation to be based on Lambda-Expressions against EF,
so the performance can be much better.
Composing several expressions with AND, OR, NOT, (composition operations) cannot be done with simple expressions without implementing some ‘plumbing’.
Second reason is that Specifications allows defining a query criterion and simply referencing it. If you would want to do the same you’d need to make a class returning an expression, therefore it would be similar but with no composition, denial, etc. 
Ok, you can do something like: 
Expression<Func<T,bool>> expression = t.property==true; 
Which is really what we can be returning, but our specification implementation allows composition and criteria encapsulation instead of spreading it directly on lambda expressions.
Finally, the use of the composite specification pattern is not mandatory in this Architecture, for instance, instead of using a AllMatching() for specifications you can always use the filter method providing a lambda expression directly.

More examples about SPECIFICATION PATTERN and LINQ:
http://linqspecs.codeplex.com/   (by jfromaniello)


Specifications provide us with a mechanism to know the criteria of the elements we want to search for; 
but it does not know anything about who will perform the search operation thereof. 
In addition to this clear separation of concerns, the creation of these elements also helps us 
to make important domain operations, such as types of search criteria, perfectly clear. 
Otherwise, these would be scattered around different parts of the code, making them more difficult and expensive to modify. 

Finally, another advantage of specifications, as proposed here, is the possibility of performing SPECIFICATION COMPOSITION (logical operations),
 which provides us with a simple mechanism to perform dynamic queries in LINQ.